---
layout: home
search_exclude: true
categories: [markdown]
title: Collegeboard MCQ Test 2 Reflection
---

# What I got Wrong
## Question 13:
The “AND” operator returns true only if both of its arguments are true. I initially thought option III was correct, but later realized option II was the correct answer. This is because if option I were true, it would mean that a student wouldn’t be able to vote at age 18 due to the use of the less than or equal to sign. Option II is correct because it states that a person who is 16 or older can drive, but cannot vote until they are 18 or older. Therefore, option II and III, which is the opposite of II, are correct answers. This is because while a person in the desired age range can be exactly 16, they cannot be exactly 18 or they will be allowed to vote.
## Question 16:
I assumed that, like iteration, sequencing, and selection, searching was also a programming structure. But now that I know, it makes total sense, as searching is made up of useing a combination of the other three, and searching can be either sequantial searhc or binary search, which combine programming structures in different ways to make algorithms. Iteration couldn’t have been the answer, as that would already be implemented before. Sequencing cannot be the answer, as numbers do not need to be in any order to sum, since addition is commutative. That leaves selection, the correct answer, as each even number muct be selected to add to the sum.
# Things I should Improve On:
- Read questions more carefully
- Don’t take as long on each MCQ
    - the AP exam is 2 hours for 70 questions, which is less than 2 minutes per question
- Make sure to understand the collegeboard language(<- is equals(-), and indexing begins with 1)
