---
layout: home
search_exclude: true
categories: [markdown]
title: 5.1/5.2 Lecture Notes
---

# 5.1 Lesson Notes
In general technology has the benefit of streamlining many processes in the modern day. Certain processes may not want to be streamlined right now, or there may be downsides to streamlining (such as tools for violence).

Dopamine is often a product of things like video games and social media, but they both have many harms such as too much escapism or, in the case of social media, high personal standards due to overexposure.

## Blog Reflection
1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing.
    - Here are some harms. >1. Computers could replace humans in certain professions, making people lose their jobs and overall decreasing the number of open jobs for people. >2. Computers can be relied upon too heavily for knowledge, making us have less personal intelligence (Open AI as an example). >3. Computers are programmed and cannot always understand the nuances that humans can. As a result, if we place too much emphasis on them, we may end up publicizing biased accounts of historical or current events.
    - And here are some benefits. >1. Many tasks that are already handled by computers can be improved as technology improves without many downsides to human involvement. >2. It may be easier to gain independent knowledge when it’s easier to find answers for what we need to know. >3. While technology can be used for violence and warfare, it can also be used to defend from it and prevent it.
2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
    - Personally, while I do sometimes play video games or use social media, my involvement with these things has not decreased my involvement in high school. School has had the opposite effect, actually: I don’t use social media or play video games very often because I’m too busy with school work.
    - I think as video games have begun to implement intentionally addictive gameplay loops, it’s getting easier for especially the youth to get addicted. I think people who are old enough to know how to budget their time should not have to worry about restricting their online time as much, but parents should be expected to enforce measures to prevent this sort of addiction when identified.

# 5.2 Lesson Notes
A major point of interest since COVID has been the digital divide. Quarantine requirements led many to rely heavily upon technology for school, work, and communication. Many, however, do not have access to technology.

As our society overall turns toward technology, those who do not have access ends up being left behind. While some do not use technology by choice, many don’t have access for financial reasons. Technological access can be expensive, and this growing digital divide can leave the less fortunate even further from the wealthy.

## Blog Reflection
1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?
    - It is pretty much necessary for someone to gain access to technology in the modern world to “empower” oneself. Using technology, we have a lot of influence over our personal image. It is also important to not reveal aspects of our lives that could get us punished in some way on the internet, as it may stay there forever.
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
    - The empowered help people by providing them the platform to empower themselves. For example, since Del Norte as a collective has the funds to lend students Chromebooks, they help empower them by giving them access. Empowered people can also help those who aren’t by teaching them how to best use their online access for their own benefit.
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
    - I would argue that paper or red tape don’t have much effect on digital empowerment as time goes on. I would argue that the main “paper” that blocks digital empowerment is money; money is generally what restricts people’s digital empowerment. It is this barrier that exists to some degree at Del Norte (though less, since we live in a generally high-income area), and definitely exists elsewhere. I would argue that red tape has little effect on digital empowerment as time goes on, since restrictions hardly relate to the biggest issue of the digital device.
    
    As technological means of completing tasks becomes preferable, what is perhaps the larger blockade to digital empowerment is the early transition away from paper. Digital responsibility is an important thing to teach people, and those who aren’t taught how to be responsible may end up acting in ways online that harm them.

| Reporting Category | Criteria | How I will Fit Criteria |
|-|-|-|
| Program Purpose and Function | ✅ describes the overall purpose of the program demonstrated in the video ✅ describes what functionality of the program is demonstrated in the video ✅ describes the input and output of the program | The purpose of the map and weather page is to help the users narrow down on the activities and places they want to visit. The weather and location of places help people determine what they want to wear, the best time/day to go, which transportation to take, or even if they want to go to the place at all. |
| Data Abstraction | ✅ one program code that shows how data has been stored in this list (or another collection type). ✅ one program code that shows the data in this same list being used as part of fulfilling the program’s purpose. ✅ identifies the name of the variable representing the list being used in this response. ✅ describes what the data contained in this list is representing in the program | The data is being stored in API systems. | 
| Managing Complexity | ✅ includes a program code segment that shows a list being used to manage complexity in the program  ✅ explains how the named, selected list manages complexity in the program code by explaining why the program code could not be written, or how it would be written differently, without using this list. | Without |
| Procedural Abstraction | ✅ one program code showing a student-developed procedure with at least one parameter that has an effect on the functionality of the procedure ✅ one program code showing where the student-developed procedure is being called. ✅ describes what the identified procedure does and how it contributes to the overall functionality of the program | All of this data is being abstracted from outside REST API's. I will create procedures that will go through the list of cities to output results of the user input city. |
| Algorithm Implementation | ✅ includes a program code segment of a student-developed algorithm that includes sequencing, selection, and iteration ✅ explains in detailed steps how the identified algorithm works in enough detail that someone else could recreate it | The code would include selection by choosing the city within the huge list of cities in San Diego County. And to actually select this city, the code will have to iterate through the list which is held in alphabetical order. |
| Testing | ✅ describes two calls to the selected procedure identified in written response 3c. Each call must pass a different argument(s) that causes a different segment of code in the algorithm to execute. ✅ describes the condition(s) being tested by each call to the procedure. ✅ identifies the result of each call | The different arguments will be the different locations that I decide to test in the video. I will show the different results of each call, so the weather and how far the location is from my location will be the results.  | 